# Definitions and Abbreviations

#### **Base Case**

The base case is the model’s expected case, determined using the
assumptions that the modeler believes most likely to occur. Starting
with the base case scenario, other scenarios can be defined and
analyzed.

#### **Comparator**

A device for comparing something with a standard or baseline measure.

#### **Uncertainty Intervals**

Uncertainty intervals are used to express the degree of uncertainty
associated with a statistic. An uncertainty interval is an interval
estimate (a value defined by two numbers, between which a population
parameter lies) combined with a probability statement. For example, a
statistician might describe an interval estimate as a “95% uncertainty
interval”. This means that if we used the same sampling method to
select different samples and calculated an interval estimate for each
sample, we would expect the true population parameter to fall within
the interval estimates 95% of the time.

#### **Dynamic Transmission Model**

Dynamic transmission models are capable of reproducing the direct and
indirect effects of a communicable disease control intervention. They
differ from other models in that they do not assume a constant risk of
infection (often referred to as the “force of infection): a function
of the number of infectious individuals in the population at a point
in time. Should an intervention reduce the number of infectious
individuals, the risk to uninfected susceptible individuals will
decrease. In this manner, individuals not directly reached by an
intervention may still benefit by experiencing a lower risk of
infection.

#### **Incident Cases**

Incident cases are those that have been newly diagnosed. Incidence
refers to the number of new cases that develop in a particular
population in a given period of time.

#### **Isoniazid (INH)**

A medicine used to prevent TB disease in people who have latent TB
infection. INH is also one of the four medicines often used to treat
TB disease.

#### **LTBI – Latent tuberculosis infection**

A condition in which TB bacteria are alive, but inactive in the body.
People with latent TB infection have no symptoms, don’t feel sick,
can’t spread TB to others, and usually have a positive TB skin test or
positive TB blood test reaction. However, they may develop TB disease
if they do not receive treatment for latent TB infection.

#### **MDR-TB – Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis**

Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis is caused by TB bacteria that is
resistant to at least isoniazid and rifampin, the two most potent TB
drugs.

#### **Prevalence**

A statistical concept referring to the number of cases of a disease
that are present in a particular population at a given time.

#### **Rifapentine (RPT)**

One of two medicines used to treat latent TB infection.

#### **Sensitivity Analysis**

A technique used to determine how different values of an independent
variable impact a dependent variable under a given set of assumptions.
In all models, parameters are uncertain. Sensitivity analyses can
provide information such as how robust the base case scenario is when
different parameter values are used and under what circumstances the
base case would change.

#### **TLTBI – Treatment and testing for latent tuberculosis infection**

#### **TB – Tuberculosis**

A disease caused by bacteria that are spread from person to person
through the air. TB usually affects the lungs, but it can also affect
other parts of the body, such as the brain, the kidneys, or the spine.
In most cases, TB is treatable and curable; however, people with TB
can die if they do not get proper treatment.
